Query Attack Discovery programmatically guide (#5837)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/security/ai/attack-discovery-programmatic-access.md

---
navigation_title: Programmatic access
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.1
  serverless:
    security: ga
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless

> description: Query Attack Discovery indices with the Search API, ES|QL, and Kibana APIs, and learn how to guard integrations against injection risks.

Author: ```suggestion
description: Query Attack Discovery indices with the Search API, ES|QL, and Kibana APIs, and learn how to guard against injection risks.
```

---

# Query Attack Discovery data programmatically [attack-discovery-programmatic-access]

> You can query Attack Discovery data directly to build custom dashboards, feed automated triage pipelines, export discoveries to external tools, or integrate Attack Discovery results with third-party SIEM and SOAR platforms. This page explains how to query the correct indices, provides example queries, and covers security considerations consuming Attack Discovery data.

Author: ```suggestion
You can query Attack Discovery data directly to build custom dashboards, feed automated triage pipelines, export discoveries to external tools, or integrate Attack Discovery results with third-party SIEM and SOAR platforms. This page explains how to query the correct indices, provides example queries, and covers security considerations for consuming Attack Discovery data.
```

> You can query Attack Discovery data directly to build custom dashboards, feed automated triage pipelines, export discoveries to external tools, or integrate Attack Discovery results with third-party SIEM and SOAR platforms. This page explains how to query the correct indices, provides example queries, and covers security considerations for integrations that consume Attack Discovery data.

Author: ```suggestion
You can query Attack Discovery data directly to build custom dashboards, feed automated triage pipelines, export discoveries to external tools, or integrate Attack Discovery results with third-party SIEM and SOAR platforms. This page explains how to query the correct indices, provides example queries, and covers security considerations consuming Attack Discovery data.
```

## Prerequisites [attack-discovery-programmatic-prerequisites]

Before you query Attack Discovery data programmatically, make sure you have the following:

- **Index privileges**: `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges on the Attack Discovery alert indices. Refer to [Attack Discovery RBAC](/solutions/security/ai/attack-discovery.md#attack-discovery-rbac) for the full list of required privileges.

> - **Authentication**: An [{{es}} API key](/deploy-manage/api-keys/elasticsearch-api-keys.md) to authenticate API requests. Scope the key to the minimum privileges your integration requires.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Authentication**: An [{{es}} API key](/deploy-manage/api-keys/elasticsearch-api-keys.md) to authenticate API requests. Scope the key to the minimum required privileges.
```

---
navigation_title: Programmatic access
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.1
  serverless:
    security: ga
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
description: Query Attack Discovery indices with the Search API, ES|QL, and Kibana APIs, and learn how to guard integrations against injection risks.
---

# Query Attack Discovery data programmatically [attack-discovery-programmatic-access]

You can query Attack Discovery data directly to build custom dashboards, feed automated triage pipelines, export discoveries to external tools, or integrate Attack Discovery results with third-party SIEM and SOAR platforms. This page explains how to query the correct indices, provides example queries, and covers security considerations for integrations that consume Attack Discovery data.

## Prerequisites [attack-discovery-programmatic-prerequisites]

Before you query Attack Discovery data programmatically, make sure you have the following:

> - **Index privileges**: Your role needs `read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges on the Attack Discovery alert indices. Refer to [Attack Discovery RBAC](/solutions/security/ai/attack-discovery.md#attack-discovery-rbac) for the full list of required privileges.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Index privileges**:`read` and `view_index_metadata` privileges on the Attack Discovery alert indices. Refer to [Attack Discovery RBAC](/solutions/security/ai/attack-discovery.md#attack-discovery-rbac) for the full list of required privileges.
```

> - **Authentication**: Use an [{{es}} API key](/deploy-manage/api-keys/elasticsearch-api-keys.md) to authenticate requests. Scope the key to the minimum privileges your integration requires.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Authentication**: An [{{es}} API key](/deploy-manage/api-keys/elasticsearch-api-keys.md) to authenticate API requests. Scope the key to the minimum privileges your integration requires.
```

```json
GET /.alerts-security.attack.discovery.alerts-default/_search
{
  "size": 10,
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  },
  "fields": [
    "kibana.alert.rule.name",
    "kibana.alert.severity",
    "kibana.alert.workflow_status",
    "host.name",
    "user.name",
    "@timestamp"
  ],
  "_source": false,
  "sort": [
    { "@timestamp": { "order": "desc" } }
  ]
}
```

For additional query patterns (filtering by time range, severity, status, and more), refer to [Query alert indices](/explore-analyze/alerting/alerts/query-alerts.md#_sample_queries) and adapt those examples by replacing the index pattern with the Attack Discovery alias. You can also use [{{esql}}](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/query-alert-indices.md#example_queries) with the same alias. For a list of common alert fields, refer to [Common alert fields](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/query-alert-indices.md#common-alert-fields).

## Query with the Attack Discovery API [attack-discovery-kibana-api]

> {{kib}} provides purpose-built REST APIs for Attack Discovery data that return enriched discovery objects, including LLM-generated summaries, MITRE ATT&CK mappings, and entity information, that aren't available in the raw alert index documents.

Author: ```suggestion
Elastic provides REST APIs for working with Attack Discovery data:
```

- `GET /api/attack_discovery/_find`: Search, filter, and paginate through saved discoveries.
- `POST /api/attack_discovery/_generate`: Trigger a new discovery generation from alerts.
- `GET /api/attack_discovery/generations/{execution_uuid}`: Retrieve results for a specific generation.

For the full list of endpoints and parameters, refer to the [Attack Discovery API reference](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/group/endpoint-security-attack-discovery-api).

:::{note}

> The Find and Generation APIs accept an `enable_field_rendering` parameter. When set to `true`, markdown fields include a `{{ field_name value }}` syntax used by {{kib}} to render interactive pivot links. If you're building a custom renderer, set this to `false` (the default) or implement dedicated handling for this syntax.

Author: ```suggestion
The Find and Generate APIs accept an `enable_field_rendering` parameter. When set to `true`, markdown fields include a `{{ field_name value }}` syntax used by {{kib}} to render interactive pivot links. If you're building a custom renderer, set this to `false` (the default) or implement dedicated handling for this syntax.
```

:::

> ## Security considerations for integrations [attack-discovery-security-considerations]

Author: ```suggestion
## Security considerations [attack-discovery-security-considerations]
```

> Attack Discovery data can contain values derived from adversary-controlled sources: hostnames, usernames, process names, and other fields that originate from raw alert data. LLM-generated fields like `detailsMarkdown` and `summaryMarkdown` can also reflect this untrusted content. When your integration passes this data to other systems, treat every field value as untrusted input.

Author: ```suggestion
Attack Discovery data can contain values derived from adversary-controlled sources: hostnames, usernames, process names, and other fields that originate from raw alert data. LLM-generated fields like `detailsMarkdown` and `summaryMarkdown` can also reflect this untrusted content. When you pass this data to other systems, treat every field value as untrusted input.
```

The following sections describe common injection risks and how to mitigate them.

### Avoid KQL injection when building queries from discovery data [ad-kql-injection]

> If your integration builds KQL query strings by interpolating values from Attack Discovery fields, an adversary who controls a field value could alter the query logic.

Author: ```suggestion
If you build KQL query strings by interpolating values from Attack Discovery fields, an adversary who controls a field value could alter the query logic.
```

::::{warning}
Don't construct KQL queries by concatenating untrusted field values. Use structured {{es}} query filters instead.

> ::::

Author: ```suggestion
```

> For example, suppose your integration pivots on a `host.name` value from a discovery to find related alerts:

Author: ```suggestion
For example, suppose you use a `host.name` value from a discovery to find related alerts:
```

```python
# UNSAFE: field value is interpolated directly into a KQL string
host = discovery_fields["host.name"]
kql = f'host.name: "{host}" AND kibana.alert.workflow_status: "open"'
```

If an adversary sets the `host.name` value to `" OR _id: "`, the resulting KQL becomes `host.name: "" OR _id: "" AND kibana.alert.workflow_status: "open"`, which changes the query's intended scope.

Instead, use {{es}} `term` filters, which treat the value as a literal and don't interpret query syntax:

```python
query = {
    "bool": {
        "filter": [
            {"term": {"host.name": host}},
            {"term": {"kibana.alert.workflow_status": "open"}}
        ]
    }
}
```

### Avoid shell injection when running automated actions [ad-shell-injection]

> If your integration passes field values from Attack Discovery alerts to shell commands, for example to run remediation scripts against a host, an adversary who controls the field value can inject arbitrary commands.

Author: ```suggestion
If you pass field values from Attack Discovery alerts to shell commands, for example to run remediation scripts against a host, an adversary who controls the field value can inject arbitrary commands.
```

::::{warning}
Never interpolate untrusted values into shell command strings. Use parameterized APIs that don't invoke a shell interpreter.

> ::::

Author: ```suggestion
```

```python
import subprocess

host = discovery_fields["host.name"]

# UNSAFE: passes the value through a shell interpreter
subprocess.run(f"ssh {host} 'systemctl restart service'", shell=True)

# SAFE: passes arguments as a list, bypassing shell interpretation
subprocess.run(["ssh", host, "systemctl", "restart", "service"])
```

The unsafe pattern passes the entire string to `/bin/sh`, which interprets shell metacharacters in the `host` value. The safe pattern passes each argument directly to the `ssh` process without shell interpretation.

### Sanitize markdown content before rendering [ad-markdown-injection]

> Attack Discovery responses from the {{kib}} API include LLM-generated markdown in fields such as `detailsMarkdown`, `summaryMarkdown`, and `entitySummaryMarkdown`. If your integration renders this markdown as HTML, unsanitized content could introduce:

Author: ```suggestion
Attack Discovery responses from the {{kib}} API include LLM-generated markdown in fields such as `detailsMarkdown`, `summaryMarkdown`, and `entitySummaryMarkdown`. If you render this markdown as HTML, unsanitized content could introduce:
```
